about another minute and then we'll
start Jim did you have time to play
around with the bill this weekend No
okay I think we can probably start so
welcome to the ipfs weekly call my name
is Jim Peck and our guest today is
Jokinen and he's going to be talking
about perma web dial so I'll hand it
over to you choking it brilliant good
morning
so I guess a good place to start I mean
a lot of people were not happy infest
camp and did not know about what we
would cover there and I think a lot of
things have been achieved since I was
there so I'm just talk about kind of
scratch and get people updated on that
feel free to also interrupt me with
questions and anything so best place to
start is really just go in term of what
that I yell which I just updated to
night at 2:00 a.m.
Marinette may not be related to my sore
throat so I'm sure scream or something
yes of course we're gonna pray through
these room gods but let's see No sure
yes and then this guy um looking at
their water yeah we can see it right
okay so so permit what are you is
actually a collection of efforts it's
really a realization that us or team as
product people we want to have a way to
introduce the concepts of the perma web
of the decentralized web of ipfs etc to
the mainstream and to one learn the
general concepts behind the technology
learn what apps are out there and how to
get started with this whole thing so
we've been working on a variety of apps
but we realized that there's a lot of
core questions that people have that we
all needed to we all run into and the
text our team runs it
so we decided to start with a mortal
murmur what that il surprisingly was
free and try to explain the philosophy
we have here this whole thing stems from
the idea that we want to take back the
internet from from the you know top ten
giant the the ninety percent of websites
that control notes are the ten websites
that control 90% of the Internet and
make it possible using IPA first you
start celebrating of things so what you
see on this page is we're going for a
very basic like app store that the feel
of like this is kind of like the the
cars you should care about when you're
approaching it space so we're starting
with some basic concepts to explain
people what this stuff is we're going to
be populating it with more tutorials
both in technology side of like this is
how it started with IPA fests how you
build a basic page and deploy it and as
well as blog post articles the meetup
meetings coming up and and yes that
we're working on I've been working on an
app called primer what writer which I'll
show you in a second and of course we're
super close to the textile team useful
product people we don't do a lot back in
the work we basically come to a textile
or back in team because they really help
us be a lot of of IVFs super easily so
we think the two most mature kind of
things in terms of consumer stuff on IP
offense at the moment are from a web
writer and take some photos but we're
looking for others to adhere and so
essentially this is just the community
space for us to showcase all things ipfs
and related to get people in the
community faster that's what we have all
the chance and that's what we've been
also working on providing chat bridges
for the whole community so that we are
this code server the matrix server and
the IRC servers are breached so that's
the that's the basics of program that I
know I'd love to know if you have some
questions so far so the discord chat
bridge and is that
you didn't do the matrix when did you
this is a separate matrix as a native
bridge two three node the IRC server we
aware of protocol channels are however
there is no matrix to discord or disk or
to IRC native bridge so we put them all
together now we have a server handles
that basically any other questions cool
all right obviously visual is the final
we're working on that but I I'd love to
fog with people in the community here to
keep updating this site regularly so it
becomes a space where where you like
have a regular newsletter and try to to
get people who are rather not technical
into this space and you start testing
the apps that we have and bring them to
the events that we have know that the
second thing I'll show you is what I was
showing at a PFS camp and some progress
since which is the work on on thermal
web writer so this I I just covered
briefly earlier but really the entirety
of the internet since what you know if
like I don't know how many of you guys
were around for like like building
startups are 2005 but I think that the
big like the the the the novelty at the
time was that like were switching to a
service based Internet right like API is
becoming a stander and all that and and
that really gave birth to a generalized
services that we specialize in certain
kind of need be like oh I'm your social
network a video platform your photo site
whatever and the problem I think we've
seen the past 15 years is that the these
platforms have become basically being or
that for people so like prior to that
you know the internet was like get a
host make your webpage like put your
stuff on the internet that way like it
was this very indie kind of web and has
mostly gone away people still do it they
go on Squarespace and they do the thing
go that is not the norm at all and I
we're not even playing the big brother
angle or anything
thing in terms of culture and diversity
is really because it's basically a
like general kizhe of the internet and I
think that's really sad
like there needs to be more diversity in
here I also think that if you look at
the technology of ipfs it's actually a
really good match for free speech and
this expression of Indy people because a
lot of people in the community see as
various other things which it is you
know it's a great tool for better
infrastructure it's a great way of
thinking of different shape of the
internet all those things are true but I
don't think enough people himer the camp
like free speech angle here which is we
are about self hosting basically by by
design by nature we're doing into an
encryption which I know we don't get
natively on ipfs but with text out with
you and a lot of people do on top of it
by default anyway and links can't
essentially get censored or if they do
can still point at things which is
really really great so it goes back to I
think the initial principles of the
internet when I was DARPA net or is like
okay we need to have this kind of like
decentralized system of nodes that can
talk to each other in a resilient way
and I really like that that's something
that I PFS brings back to the internet
so we think about all that and okay so
this is what I should just camp I'm
gonna skip that actually which tell you
what the the app we're doing is we're
thinking that it's too difficult to just
write text and put on that DFS and I
know peer Pat exists it's great creep
back crypt bone crypto pie the crypt mad
I never remember exist as well and
they're fine tools I think they're very
techy in some ways and so we're just
looking at like from product angle how
can we do something a little bit
different all that so we've been working
a lot with the textile team to make a
new tool we we focus on things that you
would find more on like medium so like
things like embeds and putting emojis
and reactions and things like that so
that you can write more like a blog post
or a medium type of post and not so much
like
a Google Docs kind of document but I'd
like to show you the stuff we've been
working on since ipfs camp because
actually it was really interesting
having the discussions there realizing
people were like oh we want to
[Music]
collaborate a different way on ipfs was
kind of like the common point in a lot
of discussions we had with people and
and so we went back to the drawing board
of like what's the the core of
interactions we want to solve for and
like writing is great but we realized
that that teams wanted essentially
really a Dropbox paper replacement for
us that's what can cross all the
discussions so we went ahead designed
that so here on the screen you see the
the current work in progress version
where essentially you have a bunch of
teams slash channels on the left
they have different sets of permissions
so you can have it's essentially like
repos on github you can have the private
you can have it for team and assigned to
specific people you can also make them
public and in there you can start
creating discussions that can be a
single post or that can be a series of
post so like philosophically it's kind
of a place between let's say slack in
Gmail I hate slack with a passion I
think it's a garbage pool and it's a
negative value on mankind
I think it's very distracting and it's
always on you all the time but but it's
also really easy to use and I think
Gmail makes it really really convenient
to like come back to things later on so
that's what we went like I think
collaboration you're a bit like a
mixture of the two
so how it works is very simple you just
start writing just like I showed you
earlier just back away same way you
would on medium the only thing we added
since ipfs camp is the ability to pick a
team that you're sharing with and the
specific people you want to you can end
up with post like this which we don't
have the reactions right now but I'm
hoping by the end of the month with you
but essentially it's sort of blog post
sort of to-do lists
documents American can have documents
you would do on topics paper basically
where I think you have the kind of
reactions people wanted we have a bunch
of bucket force with the text option on
the kind of meetings they do and how
they react to each other and so we're
like okay you guys clearly want
something kind of like the Facebook
reactions to post they know laugh and
cry and all that stuff but they need to
be about work so we can't lend it that
these reactions of approved history and
is thinking but that's also subject to
change depending how people out here
interact will play around with that here
you can see that threads are actually a
series of messages so you can write
another post below or replies and
comments it's a try and thank people on
watch conversation that like so we want
you feel a bit like the bucket work you
can have a github that's a more for
example of discussion people we wrestled
a show that if it's can we like you feel
like something you're already used to
meaning that's what we have a focus on
having like keyboard shortcuts exactly
the same as Gmail and providing it what
you see what you get editor that you can
just write plain text or or have mark
down the same way as you were on medium
but we also want to leverage what IP fsq
this with three things like well other
versioning of every character you type
and the ability to just go back in time
with all transversions which is
something that if you want to do that on
Gmail or Dropbox paper or whatever it's
like you've been working for and one
thing were very interested in doing is
we so this whole projects open source
its MIT where we're not looking at you
know becoming richer on this project
we're looking at creating a way for
people to put more things in that give s
and because of that we're very
interested in pushing things out from
the editor I think when you look at it
to like notion for example which is all
startups love
notions great but it does a lot of
things it tries to get you to switch to
a lot of things and I mean that logic
basically like the design philosophy is
that you poor things end at all I want
to do exactly the opposite with this
tool which is that if you write a thing
here you can publish it on your website
so that you can treat your website or
you can produce more and less CMS for
your website and just move away as post
essentially it's not writing a blog
dynamically on top of ipfs which is
something that people are not really
doing at the moment
sadly so so the relationship would be to
have a basically static page on that PFS
with a base query there just go what's
the latest content you have on your
textile node and they will just show
your blog post so so we're very
interested in have like enabling people
to push their content further than just
being you know very static pages on the
internet and I'm cam pushing the
envelope on that DF is that like and we
think that there's have you ever served
like very like versed pocket you said of
people using for the case being and team
collaboration and blogs are those kind
of things I've no idea what captions
I take but that's it's gonna be
interesting in their coming months and
that's that's all I have
were basically the first people trying
to do this very like consumer take on on
this small stack so you know if you meet
me in person either coming conferences
or the meetups that we have probably end
up in the design discussion it has to be
a different form for a lot of people in
the space but we we think the tech is
very awesome for helping Meg internet
come to shape we think it should be and
we really like to bring more people to
that and that's it love to take your
questions
Thank You voltar I slowed it laughs feel
free to either raise your head or type
the questions in the chat window I have
a question
you're using the textile stack right
have you found that is that been used
are you obviously building everything on
top of it right I think God every day
for their existence I'm not even
religious like no it's great
and I say this I I say this like
genuinely we're super close to them
because there's a few things so so we
you know we met them last year at lab
they actually funnily enough and why
introduced us and he was like you know I
should talk with these guys sounds like
you've got the same philosophy about
what the internet should be like okay
and and you know started talking with
them and we thought they'd be these like
that can engineer dudes and it was like
oh no you come from Apple and you've got
all these design sensitivities we have
and everything and you know provide all
these tools for people and and we
realize we're trying to build the exact
same things we were talking about
building like an iCloud on top of ipfs
and giving people like a personal
Dropbox and you know what became
essentially a Dropbox paper here for
five GFS but their skill set is very
much in the tool side of the stack you
know they're the the why explain to
people how we we think of the product
stack on ipfs is that GFS is very much
the the Catholic protocol back in very
very low level back into textile for us
is something like jQuery or you know
some sort of library like that forward
to just make my life easier to to devil
pop off you know material you are
something and then we just build from
the top of it with the the methods they
give us so so it makes it super easy for
product people to work with and I think
that's been very very helpful for us
but yeah we it's kind of like
interesting because we were heavily in
dog fooding each other snacks we're
talking essentially daily like or
roadmaps don't worry about building
things and all not testing or stuff all
the time this you're being super helpful
okay I have a question from the chat
people asking how stable and ready to
use is opponent writer today I see it
now how stable is it you ready to use it
is stable and easy to use and ready to
use if you're a technical witch Diedrich
I know you are so right now it requires
you to get a release from github /param
a web camera yjs so you can release
there and you run that and you're able
to use it you know all you need as a
dependency basically is what I mean
besides the young'uns dependencies is
that you need a textile wallet
to run so it makes that note so you you
don't let go textile you Rhonda and
you're able to use the app obviously
we're working on eliminating that that's
actually the top priority right now for
the textile team and we're the first
project is going to have that so we're
gonna make it that in our builds we're
gonna include a textile node and it's
could detect if you have note running or
not and if you don't then they'll run it
if not then you know use a current node
and so I'm hoping that in a sprinter 2
we have that ready and people can just
double click and start using it the
editor itself works really well you know
as of today you can you can you know put
emoji and the bad things and toggle bold
and h3 and whatever and all that
properly and it works great so you know
these things work the wranglings work
except they give you Jason right now but
you can use them for everything so
that's kind of their point right now we
do not have any collaboration features
yet so that's going to be ready once
texta has dialogue changes to their
permissions and role system which I've
actually helped design
and that's going to be in the coming
weeks
Carson's work a lot so we're count
waiting to see how that becomes
available good name from opponent writer
to perma web writer we love the name
Epona it's ok so those of you who are
not video gamers they don't they won't
get the joke right away
those of you who are and you're fans of
Legend of Zelda we came up to the name
Epona because in Zelda the hero is
called link and we're like ipfs is all
about saving links all the time they
pronouns the horse that's always there
to save you and doesn't ever die so
that's what we called everything names
are on Zelda the problem is there's not
enough Zelda fans out there and they
never remember the name so we called it
primal what instead it's the law easier
we need more questions yes we can fix
this elephants I agree with that you
know I do think there's actually a
really good match between emulation and
an IP FS which I'm surprised no one's
with yet because ROM sets are actually
very static files like everyone's like
these like known good wrong sets that
it's just you know we know exactly
what's the CRC for everything I'm pretty
sure people would have put those on that
PFS I'm surprised no one's combined like
a JavaScript version of emulators and
those external links then you get like
you know some permanent archive thing so
Molly had a hand ask a question and then
Dirk has a yes I my question is the same
is Dirk my Dirk is the same as question
which is kind of especially coming from
like a a building on top of things more
from a front-end perspective like what
are your pain points and especially like
what what communication pathways work
really well for you and which ones maybe
don't work as well for you and I'm given
given your the way you interface with IP
this okay
there's there's a lot of different
challenges
I'll start with the non dev ones
actually because they're the least
obvious because if I went speed like you
already know that's not that important
the whole concept of the decentralized
web right now is tarnished by a couple
really bad things one is people
associated with dark web like straight
up they just think it's like oh so you
guys are doing some things you share
like really bad photos or like doing
shopping of like that's the fault line
or whatever like why would you do these
things there is no communication around
that there is no common message around
that there is you know it's it's the
standard like what do you have something
to hide kind of problem and and I think
we need to do better that's why I start
from what that IO actually the portal to
start educating people on that it's
really tough especially when so much of
our communication is about tooling it's
like hey guys you can decentralize nodes
and run them and it's like you know it
sounds like Bitcoin to people and stuff
and they're like oh maybe it's a scam
it's dodging that gets that makes it
really really difficult like wonder
there is no clear value proposition for
like average people it's just hard to
sell them on the thing the the second
thing is I'd say yet a diving deeper on
under kind of like technology focus you
know if there's a there's a there's a
real a symmetry between what's possible
with ipfs and what people claim is
possible without DFS right like
practically I can ipfs ad dot and like
have my stuff and get a hash and put it
out there and you know if I can run a
node I can serve that stuff to people
cool but a lot of people don't have a
server to run these things a lot of
people don't even know you need that
they just think that you've been the
thing and then or you you generate your
hash and then you're done they don't
know that they think it's some sort of
like cloud storage solution kind of
thing and all that they think that you
can send data to space that these
19 cents dr. Marrs they like all the
interplanetary stuff they think that's
designed to die replace HTTP and that's
like what you can be able to do with I'm
like yeah maybe but but the reality is
you know that I can actually fast add
and I can get a hatch and I can maybe
host a website like promote that I go is
supposed to my PFS
mark she's very happy with the speed but
but there's a lot of unmet kind of
expectations from like like there's
there's these early adopters in the
community which don't seem to understand
what this day in the reality of the
technology is right now so in the same
challenge that you see I think in crypto
so that's from the non-technical aspects
from the technical aspects I'd say we we
sort of had to give up on on building on
top of ipfs ourselves as product people
because the tech was the snack was so
challenging there is no notion of user
there's no notion of like logging in and
session permissions and roles and who
can do stuff you know pub/sub was really
iffy
there's no native encryption so all
these things make it if I want to have a
product that's like aimed at more than
one person or some privacy aspect to it
or anything all these things we had to
build by hand and you know community is
very knowledgeable about this stuff and
all that but but it makes it that
there's there's this really hard wall of
skills that's needed to do solve and so
like man we can't do that and and so
thankfully we found textile that you
know they they saw at least chunk of
that problem and and start solving it
which I really appreciate because that's
that's really enabling us to do our
thing you know I'm just watching the
time yes I think we better cut it out
here because people have to go to
meetings and things but thanks thanks
for coming and that was a really great
perspective I think you have and we're
excited I think where everybody was
excited to see how Fermilab writer is I
think he can actually download it today
for
I guess like Windows Windows Linux and
Mac yeah yeah and you can make your own
build also and shrine of your browser
without having executable so that works
too and you just takes a while ok this
is great and I would love to have you
back sometime in maybe a few months and
saw for sure this and for sure and if
you join the community of where we have
the link on the web but from a web slash
discord and you can join we we bridge
every single channel from Oracle labs
and the whole centralized web community
so it's really easy to talk with
everyone there great I'll have a look
David thank you